mhack

General Fixes and Modified Features
-----------------------------------
Wizards start with extra wands and spellbooks.
	However they no longer start with rings, potions or scrolls.
In wizard mode, it is possible to embark on the quest without permission.
The Mazes of Menace are significantly shorter
	The Dungeons of Doom is now 20-24 levels, compared to 25-29 levels in vanilla NetHack.
	Gehennom is now 11-12 levels, compared to 20-24 levels in vanilla NetHack.
	Lairs for Asmodeus, Baalzebub and Juiblex are removed.
	Sokoban is now 3 levels, compared to 4 levels in vanilla NetHack.
The mysterious force in Gehennom does not teleport the player, instead it summons demons.
	Cross-aligned named demons are prioritized.
Filler levels on the Healer, Knight and Samurai Quests have shallow water.
Adjusted difficulty calculations to increase difficulty more steeply in a shorter Gehennom.
Added des.ugname function to Lua special level loader.
Fix for predefined corpses inside of ice boxes on special levels.
Remove the Fake Wizard tower which does not have a magic portal.
Hallucination no longer prevents offering the Amulet of Yendor.
Grayswandir no longer grants hallucination resistance.
Sunword grants hallucination resistance when wielded.
The Heart of Ahriman grants hallucination resistance when carried.

Fixes to Post-X.X.X Problems that Were Exposed Via git Repository
------------------------------------------------------------------


Platform- and/or Interface-Specific Fixes
-----------------------------------------


General New Features
--------------------
Added wands skill, which can be #enhanced for more powerful wand effects.
	Certain monsters have high effective wand skill as well.
	This is not as comprehensive as the wands balance patch in other variants.
	The main focus is to make the early game easier, not to make the late game
	more difficult.
Added Merchant role.
	Merchants are always looking for markets to buy supplies and sell
	their wares. They start with precious gems and expensive pieces of jewelry.
	Merchants are always neutral, and can be either human or gnomish.
	The special spell for merchants is wizard lock.
	On the Merchant Quest, Pasion tasks the player with fighting Sostratus
	for the Crown of Midas, a neutral dunce cap.
Added the Crown of Midas
	When worn, The Crown of Midas grants hunger, petrification resistance, and
	the golden touch.
	A player (or monster!) who fights bare-handed with the golden touch can
	turn enemies into gold statues, subject to petrification resistance just
	like stoning by cockatrice. Enemies are also subject to a petrifying
	passive attack, as if they were attacking a cockatrice. Weapons that hit
	a player or monster with the golden touch will turn to gold. Golems without
	petrification resistance will turn into gold golems instead of stone golems.
	Players with the golden touch also turn items to gold when applying, wearing,
	throwing, eating, unlocking, locking, picking up, looting, removing (from a
	container), quaffing or wielding the item. Some items, including most weapons,
	can change their material to gold as part of the object materials system.
	Other items, including most food, will turn into gold pieces. Artifacts and
	the corpses of petrification-resistant monsters will not turn to gold.
	Many items had to be added to the object materials system to implement the
	Crown of Midas including heavy balls, conical hats and statues.
	The Crown of Midas is intended to be hazardous to careless players, but
	rewarding to those who can work around the various problems. It also makes
	the Merchant quest somewhat dangerous, since Sostratus is likely to wear
	the Crown and use it against the player.
Added bribery skill, which can be #enhanced for cheaper bribes.
	Bribery is expensive, but effective against most humanoid monsters.
	The formula is 'B + ((B * M * M)/C)', where B is 1000 or less (depending on
	the bribery skill), M is the monster level, and C is charisma.
	Merchants start at basic in bribery, and can reach expert.
	Rogues, Tourists and Priests can also enhance the skill. Other roles are
	restricted, meaning they pay the full price for bribes.
Added 3 variants of the middle level of the Wizard's tower.
Added a new map for the Monk locate level, replacing the old map.
	The new map is a bit of a puzzle.
Added 2 variants of the bottom level of Vlad's tower, replacing the old map.
Added 2 variants of the middle level of Vlad's tower.
Added 2 variants of the top level of Vlad's tower.
Added a cockatrice-themed Mine's End variant.
Added an Orcus Town variant with a central maze.
Added an Orcus Town variant with flower-, skull- and hourglass-shaped rooms.
Added 2 serpent-themed variants of Medusa's Island.
Added a Moloch's Sanctum variant focused on a red eye of lava.
Added a Valley of the Dead variant surrounded by caves.
Added 3 variants of the Fake Wizard's Tower which has a magic portal.
Added 3 variants of the Oracle level.
Added 2 variants to the bottom level of the Wizard's Tower.
Added 13 variants to the top level of the Wizard's Tower.
Added a Mine's End variant with many gnomes and wands.
The Amulet of Yendor grants extrinsic hallucination.
	Extrinsic hallucination does not time out and is not cured with a unicorn horn.
	It can be resisted with an item granting hallucination resistance.
	It can be avoided by dropping the Amulet.
Added randomized alchemy system, conical flasks and alchemy skill
	Alchemical recipes are randomized each game. They can be discovered by trial and
	error or by using a scroll of alchemy. By using a conical flask while standing
	above water, it is also possible to test an alchemical recipe without using up
	the potions involved.
	Certain recipes are 'difficult': for difficult recipes, the chance of success
	scales with the player's skill at alchemy. The alchemy skill is trained by
	discovering a new alchemical recipe through trial and error (with or without
	a conical flask).
	Once learned, recipes are listed on the Discoveries page.
	Scrolls of alchemy cannot be written, but scrolls of alchemy and conical flasks
	can be found in the inventory of Q-class monsters.
Added #wizshowalchemy command
	This command shows all alchemical recipes in the current game. It is exclusive
	to wizard mode.
Added Alchemist role.
	Alchemists have a deep understanding of the materials and energies of the
	universe. Using their potions and laboratory equipment, alchemists can
	neutralize enemies, transform objects and even mutate their own bodies.
	Alchemists are neutral or chaotic, and can be human, elvish, gnomish or orcish.
	Their special spell is polymorph, and their crowning gift is a spellbook of polymorph.
	The first sacrifice gift for Alchemists is Sourcoil: a rubber hose which does double
	damage to targets which are not acid resistant.
	On the Alchemist quest, Maria tasks the player with fighting Unbioctium for
	the Stone of Philosophers, a neutral amethyst.
	The Alchemist starting inventory is slightly inspired by the Drunk role in
	NetHack-- and SLASHTHEM.
Added the Stone of Philosophers
	When carried, the Stone of Philosophers grants acid resistance. When invoked, it
	can change the material of an object, similar to a transmuter.

Platform- and/or Interface-Specific New Features
------------------------------------------------


NetHack Community Patches (or Variation) Included
-------------------------------------------------
Imported object materials from SpliceHack.
Imported transmuter from SpliceHack.
Imported 1 Sokoban puzzle from SpliceHack.
Imported 55 Sokoban puzzles from HackEM.
	These likely originated from GruntHack, NetHack Fourk, and the New Sokoban Levels patch.
Imported Zoo Town and Lavender Town variants of Mine town from SpliceHack.
Imported shallow water from L's terrain patch.
	Many imported levels from other variants (below) were modified to include shallow water.
Imported sewer system big room variant from L's terrain patch.
Imported Orc Temple variant of Mine's End from EvilHack.
	This originated from Khor's patch.
Imported Sewers of Waterdeep variant of Mine's End from EvilHack.
	Used shallow water instead of sewage, and used different monsters and loot.
Imported 2 Castle variants from UnNetHack.
	These originated in a patch by Pasi Kallinen.
Imported 3 Castle variants from dNetHack.
Imported Grund's Stronghold from SLASHEM via HackEM, modified to be a Castle variant.
	Significantly changed the layout and monsters of the left side of the stronghold.
	Added a moat and random mazes on each side of the stronghold.
Imported Wizard's Manse from the Lethe patch, modified to be a Castle variant.
	Reduced the number of thrones, changed the monsters and loot significantly.
	Changed the islands and shores outside the Manse.
Imported Orcus Town variant from the Lethe patch.
Imported 6 variants of the Priest home level from the biodiversity patch.
	Fixed bugs in the layouts.
Imported the Banquet Hall from early versions of SpliceHack as a Mine's End variant.
Imported 1 SLASHEM Mall variant as a Mine Town variant.
	Changed the shop probabilities and monsters, added a temple.
Imported Cthulu's Sanctum from the Lethe patch as a Sanctum of Moloch variant.
	Replaced Lethe patch monsters with vanilla monsters, including Cthulu himself.
	Fixed the possible location of the high altar.
Imported Temple of Moloch from SLASHEM as a Moloch's Sanctum variant.
	Replaced SLASHEM monsters with vanilla NetHack monsters.
	Modified the layout significantly to be appropriate for the Sanctum.
Imported Valley of the Dead variant from the Lethe patch.
Imported Castle Dungeon from the Lethe patch as a Valley of the Dead variant.
	Modified the layout and monsters significantly to be more Hell-ish.
	Replaced barracks with "pseudo-barracks" filled with undead using mercenary gear.
Imported 2 variants of the Oracle level from xNetHack.
Imported Lost Tomb from SLASHEM via SpliceHack as a Valley of the Dead variant.
	Modified the layout significantly to have all the features of the Valley of the Dead.
Imported potion-coated projectiles from SpliceHack.
	The special effect of potions of oil was left out. Most other potion-coatings
	including drugged projectiles (potion of sleeping) and envenomed projectiles
	(potion of paralysis) still work.

Code Cleanup and Reorganization
-------------------------------
